so no matter what method you're using
there are some basic principles of
correlation easy way to learn languages
based upon in which you have to stick to
the first principle is to work on a
daily basis or at least five days a week
no one to get and no gigantic amount of
work is required just 30 minutes every
day one hour would be bad for the first
three months it is much more effective
in the long run learn every day those
bit rather than spend two whole days
extraordinary claims require
extraordinary evidence can you imagine
living in a world where somebody who was
getting twenty-four hours a week of
intensive language practice done
intensive language practice intensive
study where they were just wasting their
time compared to a friend of theirs who
was only studying for three and a half
hours per week because so dramatic was
the advantage of spreading out the work
being done in two little segments of 30
minutes per day if that plane were true
if it were even possible for this
educational claim to be true we would be
living in a world we were surrounded by
evidence of this when the US military
trains fighting men to speak a foreign
language before going into combat do you
think the US military has guidelines
saying oh no no no just 30 minutes per
day or 1 hour per day there's no point
having people buckle down and study a
language intensively for six hours a day
or 12 hours a day no no no 30 minutes is
more effective not equally effective
more effective the US military would
have data because every year they have
to train thousands of people in dozens
of different languages United States
diplomatic corps Foreign Service and
many other countries that have a big
budget for training their foreign sir
do you think that the diplomatic
Institute's of the world whether for the
United Nations for a well-funded
national government the United States
America do you think that they recommend
people only study a language for 30
minutes a day that they would claim it's
more effective to spread out language
learning into 30-minute chunks or even
one-hour chunks this claim is so
ridiculous that even if we double the
numbers for one example and cut the
other example in half
it remains ridiculous comparing one hour
of work per day to six hours of work per
day with the same distribution one
person working intensively on the
weekend as opposed to the other person
working in short spurts of time spread
throughout all seven days of the week
there is no comparison
fundamentally language study language
research language learning language
practice takes time if you are able to
put in twenty four hours per week you
will make more rapid progress than
someone who can only do three and a half
hours per week you will have more depth
and ability of the language you will
have more understanding of the language
you will have more ability fluency
whatever measure you want to bring to
bear here and if you doubt that prove me
wrong you show me the evidence you show
me the scientific or linguistic research
anywhere in the world that shows that
three and a half hours per week can be
more effective than 24 hours per week
that is just absurd that is as a
dishonest atactic as the proverbial
snake oil salesman and you may be able
to sell that lie to suckers on the
internet to casual YouTube viewers who
just want an excuse for their own sort
of bad habits oh oh 30 minutes a day is
enough that's what the nice man on
YouTube said rightly or wrongly 30
minutes per day is not the method being
used by any elite university anywhere in
the world it's not the method being used
by elite military organizations anywhere
in the world it's not the method being
used by diplomatic training course or
another really good example take a look
at how Airlines trained flight staff
people who work on airplanes in the
airline industry many of them have to in
you know a pretty short amount of time
learn a foreign language to a pretty
high level of ability do you think they
have their staff working 35th day if
there were actually evidence of this if
if it were more effective if it were
dramatically more effective to only
study for 30 minutes a day don't you
think don't you think huge for-profit
corporations like Airlines training here
myself don't you think they would notice
don't you think they would care
interests who then adopt that more
effective method it's not more effective
that's why none of those institutions do
it you're just telling the audience
something they want to hear learning in
a natural way as natural as possible
this way of getting into the real fabric
of a language doesn't contemplate use of
horrible and having some you know
horrible handy sounds of grammar which
everybody's scared of another thing that
grammar books are not useful but as far
as I see it it is better to use them as
a point of reference or a thorough
linguistical Studies eventually but not
in self teaching methods I personally
think that the use of these books might
turn out to be a couraging sometimes
this second claim even more nakedly than
the first even more obviously and
overtly than the first is just appealing
to what the audience wants to hear and
then is paradoxically insisting that
because you want to hear it because it
would be convenient for you to believe
therefore it's more effective and more
efficient as a way to learn a language
and if that were true there would be
evidence and if we just let ourselves
think logically about it for half a
second it's really impossible that there
ever could be evidence of this kind now
the word natural is almost always
fallacious it can be used in a sincere
sense you know there's a difference
between a grass a lawn and a parking lot
okay one may be more natural than the
other but the idea that one method of
learning a language is more natural than
another and that grammar is the opposite
of nature where is the evidence that
withholding the teaching of grammar
helps people to advance more quickly in
the language and how could this possibly
be true of all languages equally if
you're learning Latin Greek pallie
Sanskrit Chinese Japanese Mongolian Cree
a Jib way the role of grammar and the
importance of having an analytical
understanding of grammatical concepts
while you first memorize vocabulary can
be crucially important profoundly
important from day one in the study of a
language and if there are exceptions to
this rule I would say they're just
exceptions because the target language
you're studying the language you're
trying to learn is so similar to your
own first language that you can ignore
the grammar because it's implicitly
obvious to you if your first language is
English and you start studying Dutch or
German you know what you may be able to
muddle by ignoring the grammar but even
so that doesn't mean that you should
that doesn't mean that there's evidence
that it's advantageous for you to ignore
grammatical analysis and grammatical
concepts in German and then later to
have to struggle to catch up and
compensate for bad habits and
misconceptions you've got
learning language should not be a
stressful that but a very pleasant one
of course hopefully wherever you feel on
the stretch and feel frustrated because
you can recall something you just
learned a few days ago relax and think
that in some some time many of the
problems you were beginning at that
moment will be a ridiculously sometime
later so what is it jets will learning
language is to remember that it has to
be a constant natural and pleasant way
to learn this is very similar to the
sort of dishonest pandering that goes on
in the weight loss industry well there's
a lot of scientific evidence that
counting the number of calories you eat
is effective that restricting and
restraining the amount of food you eat
by measuring it and calculating how many
calories are involved that's actually
effective that helps you gain weight but
of course it's stressful it's unpleasant
it's an annoyance it's hard work so
there are all kinds of dishonest snake
oil salesmen all over the internet who
will want to sell you the myth the half
truth the lie that you can lose weight
and have great results without counting
calories and of course not impossible
but there is no scientific evidence to
say that it will be more effective if
you don't make that effort of course I
mean you can learn a language with no
methodology at all with no effort at all
there are people who have a shipwreck no
they end up marooned somewhere living
with people who speak another language
and after a few years go by
well they somehow managed to learn the
language with no textbooks and no
teacher just surviving
yup it's possible it's also possible to
lose weight and get in shape by
surviving a shipwreck too but I wouldn't
wouldn't recommend it being marooned on
a desert island yep it can accomplish
all these things and more um but what
we're talking about here is what is
effective and those claims should be
based on evidence
and we should have the integrity to come
here on YouTube and say to you both in
discussing our own experience and in
making generalizations about our
students of a human nature on the scale
of millions of people what is effective
what is most effective is almost never
what is most pleasant most relaxing most
enjoyable part is the fundamental key to
the method because it is they're
literally fixes the structure of the
language in your brain through the
effort of we translating that language
of this spare part
the space can last a period arranging
for three six months depending how to
you structure II work I used to call
your schedule is writing down some
grammar notes wouldn't be bad actually
the second or intermediate thing very
similar to the elementary one just
greeting listening running down a return
flight and retranslated Alex but this
base is integrated with slightly more
complicated text which also have to be
written down in your name language you
can be translated into the language
you're learning later when you start the
advanced is that space at this point the
course or following is finished and what
do you have to do it simply watch movies
with subtitles in spoken and the spoken
and the written part they have
plot-twist after reassuring us that the
beginner level is going to be relaxing
and easy and fun and the intermediate
level is really just more of the same as
the beginner level the twist in the plot
is the advanced level according his
theory is also relaxing and easy and fun
my warning still stands this is somebody
who was telling the audience what they
want to hear he is not telling the
audience what they need here I think the
part of the problem with Luka is
precisely that he is a polyglot who
enjoys working on the simple
fundamentals of a language and not doing
advanced language research language
study language
practice he's had the honesty to admit
the extent of his failure with Japanese
I've also seen him reflect that today
his ability to communicate in Polish is
very very limited
so many of the languages that he studied
he only had that early thrilling ego
trip of going from level zero to level
one and he didn't go through the much
more denigrating exhausting effort of
say raising your ability in the language
to being able to write a newspaper
article a newspaper article that would
be published for and read by native
speakers of the language right that
requires precision that requires a
sensitivity to the fine differences in
meaning between different adjectives and
different verbs sounding compelling and
so on a whole lot will go into that
level of use of the language that never
goes into the sort of phrase book
knowledge that people like Luka and
people like laoshu 55,000 that these
kind of YouTube language celebrities
seem to gloriam what they seem to find
rewarding is just going from level 0 to
having the level of accomplishment that
you'd feel comfortable getting out in an
airport talking to a taxi driver going
grocery shopping and there is a sense in
which that can be rewarding there is a
sense in which that's an ego trip and I
would also say there's a little bit of
an ego trip a little bit of a reward in
first cracking the code for the
phonetics of a language for the writing
system of being the foreigner who can
really get the vowel sounds right
whereas other foreigners are
mispronouncing everything because they
don't appreciate the language you do
yeah there's a little bit of an ego trip
there and when you get into the
intermediate and advanced stages that
ego trip is gone and the nature of the
work I think is all the more exhausting
and spirit breaking but we're not gonna
get any kind of honesty about that here
no no the fundamental problem here as
I've suggested again and again is that
this is someone who earns a living
telling people what it is they want to
hear not necessarily what it is they
need to hear however I have to confess
in the 21st century encouragement is
very hard to come
I'm not surprised at all that people are
lining up to pay 60 euros per hour in a
package deal to get that little bit of
encouragement that little bit of
guidance that little bit of positivity
in their lives because learning a
language in a university environment is
utterly lacking in that kind of
encouragement and people need it people
crave it and for those of you who are
learning a language without a university
environment working in the doleful
isolation of the library alone with your
books and your audio recordings I can
completely understand why people are
drawn to Luca and his positive upbeat
message I completely understand why
people would pay this bit of money just
to hear some encouraging words for a few
hours here and there to try to feel some
sense of positive direction and
motivation as they do this really
demanding and terrible task I sympathize
and I can reflect on my own life and
what a positive difference it would have
made for me if there were just one
person encouraging me to keep on
studying Cambodian when I was working on
Cambodian his language there were just
one person helping me encouraging me in
any way being kind and helpful to me
when I was working on curry in a jib way
tremendously difficult languages I also
need encouragement when I take on the
terrible task of learning a language and
I'm sure that Luca is really fulfilling
a very meaningful role in the lives of
his students of his pupils of the people
to pay him for that bit of encouragement
[Music]